Hi guys.
In this lab we're going to create a custom VPC.
So the great thing is you've got to this point in the course and you've already done quite a few of
these things so you've already you already understand public and private subnets you already understand
about route tables, NAT gateways, Internet gateways and you've seen into some of the route tables and
how we configure them.
So that's a great start and what I wanted to do was get you to this point in the course with that foundational
knowledge so that this section of the course isn't too overwhelming because this is quite a big subject.
So what we're going to do now is build on the knowledge that you already have.
And we're actually going to stop using the default VPC.
We're actually going to create a new custom VPC and this is exactly what we're going to create.
So I'm using the Sydney region we have three Availability Zones.
So what I want to do is I want to create a public and a private subnet in each of the availability zones
and I will have a separate route table for each of those.
Now this isn't the IP CIDR range I'm going to use but this is just the icon the AWS have for a route
table what we are going to use is this IP range.
So 10.0.0.0/16
and our public route table will have a route locally so that it can  route anything within that CIDR
block and it will have a route to an Internet gateway for any destination address.
And for the private route table we'll also have the local entry so that we can route locally.
And that means locally as in within any of these subnets that are part of this CIDR
block and the outbound destination will be any and it will go to a NAT gateway.
So that's the way that we get our private subnet instances to talk out through an NAT Gateway and eventually
through the Internet gateway to the Internet.
Because remember these private instances will not have public ip addresses so that's their way to get
access to the Internet for whatever purposes updating packages.
Application requirements whatever it might be.
So let's get on with it.
Let's go over to the management console and we're going to choose VPC
and we're simply going to go into your VPCs and click Create VPC and I'm just going to call this
my VPC and now we need to specify the CIDR block.
So I'm going to specify 10 0 0 0 slash 16 and you can look up different CIDR blocks that you can
use this is a private range.
So it's one that I can use and what I'll do then is a slash 16 which then gives me the ability to create
slash 24 subnets within it so I'll then do 10.0.1 then 10.0.2 then 10.0.30 and so on with
a slash 24 mask for the individual subnets within this VPC.
And if you don't understand CIDR blocks and subnetting there's lots of great articles on the internet
so I suggest you go and have a look.
Now we can also enable IPv6 by choosing Amazon provided IPv6 CIDR
block so you can specify tenancy options here and you can choose default or dedicated and what this
means is it overrides whatever is specified at launch for the instance.
And so that could be that you're on shared hardware which is the default or that you own dedicated hardware
which is obviously more expensive but maybe required for some kind of compliance.
And so this is really referring to stuff like EC2 instances when you launch them.
And like I say this will provide a default for your VPC.
Now I'm just going to leave it at default
so that's it.
We've just created the VPC but now we need to go and configure it so we can see down here we've got
an IPv6 CIDR block assigned the IPv4 CIDR block and we can see some information about the VPC
option sets and it's already got a value selected there.
We've got a route table.
Got the full tenancy.
It's not a default VPC and we can see something around DNS resolution and DNS host names.
So if you look on the default VPC you'll see that those have both enabled whereas on the custom VPC
DNS host names is not enabled.
Now this attribute indicates where instances with public ip addresses get a corresponding public DNS
hostname.
So you remember when we've launched EC2 instances into public subnets.
The DNS hostname is provided which contains the IP address as part of the name.
So as long as you set this to true those type of host names will be generated.
I want to do that for this so I'm just gonna go in and select the DNS names enable
and that's all we need to do in there.
So the next thing I want to do is create my subnets.
So I'm going to try my private subnet excuse me I'm going to create my public subnets first and I'm
going to label them as such that I know which availability zone they're in I choose my VPC I'm going
to choose to write and I'm going to do 10.0.1.0 slash 24 and I'm going to select to assign customer
IPV6 and I'm just going to put a number and then I'm going to increment that for each subnet
and I'm just going to repeat that now for the other two subnets.
So I need to select each one of these now and enable auto assign and you see we have an IPv4 and
six option and now I'm just going to repeat that for the other two subnets
and that's it.
So we now have those public addresses we can see.
Excuse me those public subnets.
We can see the IP four and six CIDR blocks.
How many available IP V4 addresses Amazon reserves a number of addresses so you won't get the full amount
of addresses in your subnet and we can see that this time it's not a default subnet.
So now let's go and create our private subnets so we can be private so I
and so then we have 10.0.4.0/24
And we can give us IP addresses as well and I've just repeated that action to complete the other two
private subnets.
So what I want to do next is create a route table now you'll see that there is a route table that's been
created here.
So if I just expand here you can see this is my VPC and we have a route table.
It's going to have the IPv4 and six CIDR blocks here.
And it will have and it doesn't have any subnet associations but what we can do is we can go in to here
first and we can select our public subnet so public to a to b to c and we've got those and now let's
create a route table and I'm going to call this private dash RT.
You put it in our VPC click Create
and I'm now going to select the private route table and I'm going to put our private subnets in
and what we need to do now is create the Internet gateways and the nat gateways and this is going to
be my internet gateway for my custom VPC so that I call it my VPC dash by GW
and we then need to go into it and attach it to the VPC
and that's all we need to do to enable it.
We then need to go to the route table and we're going to use.
Let's just give this a label to make it absolutely clear.
So this is the public route table so I'm just gonna call it public-RT because I've associated it
with my public subnets only.
And now I can add a route it's into here which is.
So any destination address and we choose Internet gateway there's the Internet gateway and now let's
go down to Nat gateways and we're going to create a Nat gateway.
Now remember the really important thing with the NAT gateway is you need to put it into a public subnet.
So we're going to choose my VPC public to a now we're going to allocate an Elastic IP address and create
the NAT Gateway.
We can now go back to route tables and choose our private route table and edit routes.
And again we choose the any destination address and we go choose NAT gateway.
And there's the NAT Gateway click save.
So that's it.
That's all the configuration that we wanted to do.
We've got the NAT gateway the Internet gateway we've configured our route tables for the private subnets
and our public subnets and we've specified the targets for the Internet gateway and the net gateway
in those route tables.
So let's now go to EC2.
And we're just going to check all this is working by provisioning a couple of instances.
So let's launch the first instance
into our public subnet.
So got to choose the correct VPC.
Then we've got to choose our public.
I'm going to put it in public 2A.
And you can see that also saw an IP is set subnet setting which is enable and I don't need to
do anything else on that.
Let's go down and what we want to do is create a new security group because we don't have one now.
So let's call this web access
and we only need SSH 22.
So let's review launch and we can use our same key pair and now we're going to go and do the same thing
but we're going to create one in the private subnet
So choose your VPC choose your private subnet
select the web access security group with SSH access and then launch
so let's have a look now and see if the instance that we launched into our public availability zone
is accessible and we can say that it has the public DNS name and this is for IP before and a public
IP address and then has a public IP vs 6 address but there's no public DNS address for IP B6.
Now what we can do is we can go to Route 53
and we can actually let's go back and just copy our IPv6 address and I can go into Route 53 and
I can use my hosted zone here
and I'm going to create a record and it's gonna be an IPv6 address which is a site I'm just gonna call
it testing and I'm going to put in my IPv6 address
and now what I can do is I can use the dig command to do testing the dctlabs.com specify the type
and then just put in short to reduce the amount of information that's returned.
And there we go.
So we got a DNS resolution from testing.dctlabs.com to our IPv6 address.
So that's all I wanted to do with that.
I'm just going to delete this so this record and let's go back to instances and I'm going to grab the
public IP address
and we're going to secure shell into this instance but we're going to do so with the -A which forwards
on the information that we need in the key chain to be able to then connect to our private instance
so I'm now on that instance.
Clearly this one is connected to the Internet because I'm actually connected to it from the Internet.
But just to prove to you.
So that means the instant gateways working we're getting a response from Google dot com.
And now I just want to secure a shell from that to my private instance.
This is the one launched into the private subnet.
You can see it's only got a private IP address and a private DNS address.
So I'm going to SSH into that instance
and that works.
So we know that the routing is working correctly and let's see now is the NAT gateway working correctly.
And it is we're getting a response so that's it.
We now have this configuration working and we've proven that this architecture is set up correctly.
Now the only thing I'm going to do at the end of this lab now is I just want to.
Well first we want to terminate our instances so let's just go and terminate those we don't need those
anymore but I'm also gonna get rid of the NAT gateway because the NAT gateway does actually cost money
and I don't need to have it running at this stage so let's go to Nat gateways and delete the NAT gateway
and that's going to be deleting.
And then what I want to do is go to my elastic IPs so let's just see what we can do with our elastic
IPs so let's each one individually what I can release this one I can release and so I look at this
one and that can be released as well.
So make sure you get rid of your elastic IPs as you will pay for them if they're not being used and
that's it for this lab
guys hope you had a good time.
We're going to keep the rest of the configuration for the custom VPC we're going to be using that
in subsequent labs.